---
layout: post
title:  "Recently"
date:   2020-11-03 00:56:14 -0400
categories: recently
---

I am late on this Recently, and lost a bit of the habit already that I started
in September. However! I've been running a mile every other day regularly,
sticking to my dietary goals (vegetarian leaning vegan), and keeping my morning
routine (5am-7am for running/reading/writing). Unfortunately, I've had to use
that morning time for work related things quite a bit the last month, and that
has interferred with my reading, note taking, and writing. Given the amount
life changes coming down the pipe, I am not hopeful of how November will go.
But I will try to do my best to keep it steady!

Anyway, this month's recently is short. Let's get on with it.

## Using our brain the way it works best

Last month I read How to Take Smart Notes by Ahrens Sönke. The gist of the book
is that real learning and original insight comes not from gathering
encyclopedic knowledge but from making connections between what we learn in
different contexts. It is very much a how-to book, teaching Niklas Luhmann’s
"Slip-box Method" of note-taking and writing, but Sönke also spends
considerable time explaining why that method is so effective.

For example, it turns out our brains are very good at finding patterns and
similarities (or dissimilarities) between objective, external things. It
doesn’t do such great a job when comparing subjective, interal things, like
thoughts. Looking down at physical (or digital) notes that you have captured in
precise words leans into how the brain works best when searching for
connections to make between material. Doing it all within your head, not so
much.

The practical tips from the book were helpful for setting up a structure for
reading, note-taking, and reviewing notes in a way that leads to some sort of
output. The result of working in this structure so far has been a considerable
amount of serendipity. I will move from reading a book on Topic A to reading an
article on Topic Y and a tweet on Topic Z, and discover there is this thread
that connects them all together and touches on my own thinking on the subject.
Something I would have missed without the deeper, more thoughtful approach to
reading and note taking that the book evangelizes. 

I have high hopes that focusing on this habit of taking smart notes will in
time lead to a lot more writing, with more original insight, and with less
stress and misery involved in the process of the writing itself. I highly
recommend the book to anyone interested in its subject matter.

## Sleeping

An [excellent guide on
sleep](https://supermemo.guru/wiki/Good_sleep,_good_learning,_good_life) showed
up on Hackernews a month or so ago. It suggested biphasic (take a nap and sleep
at night) and free-running sleep (no alarm clocks, wake when you wake) were
keys to good sleep. I gave up the alarm clock after reading this and discovered
that I was waking up around 5am without it. I feel much more alert and less
groggy in the mornings now. I haven't been able to fit a napping practice into
my day, but I have been going to bed once I am tired and not fighting it. The
result has been bed times around 830pm-900pm quite consistently. This doesn't
leave much time to spend with my wife on weekdays, however, so I am going to
try harder to incorporate a nap after lunch and see if that shortens the night
sleep I need, and gives me back my evenings.
